[DOCS-6978] SDS guide on how to redact emails except from a specific domain in logs (#24454)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/sensitive_data_scanner/guide/redact_all_emails_except_from_specific_domain_logs.md

---
title: Redact All Emails Except from a Specific Domain in Logs
disable_toc: false
further_reading:
- link: "/sensitive_data_scanner/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Set up Sensitive Data Scanner"
---

## Overview

This guide walks you through how to redact all emails, except the ones from a specific email domain (for example, `@test.com`), in your logs.

> ## Set up a grok processor

Author: ```suggestion
## Set up a grok parser in your logs pipeline
```

> If the email domain you do not want redacted is not an existing log attribute, set up a grok processor to identify all logs with the email domain and add it as an attribute.

Author: ```suggestion
If the email domain you do not want redacted is not an existing log attribute, set up a grok parser to identify all logs with the email domain and add it as an attribute.
```

1. Navigate to [Log Pipeline][1].
1. Select your pipeline.
1. Click **Add processor**.

> 1. Select **Grok Parser**.

Reviewer: I see both "grok processor" and "grok parser" used here seemingly to mean the same thing. Should these all be "grok parser"?

Author: @neko-dd good catch! It should be "grok parser". I'm getting it mixed up with the grok parser processor in Obs Pipelines 🙃 I fixed it in this [commit](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/24454/commits/bfb334c5f2b49668123684a2e9c272b67b883539).

1. Enter a name for the grok parser.
1. Define the parsing rules to identify all logs with the email address. For example, if these are the log messages that contain email addresses with the domain:
    ```
    message successfully sent to 123@test.com
    ```
    ```
    message successfully received from 256@test.com
    ```
    Then use the following parsing rules:
    ```
    MyParsingRule1 message successfully sent to %{notSpace:user_handle}@%{notSpace:domain}

    MyParsingRule2 message successfully received from %{notSpace:user_handle}@%{notSpace:domain}
    ```
    **Note:** You don't need to keep the username. For example, if you want to redact all emails with the domain `test.com`, then for an email like `hello@test.com`, discard the username `hello` and just keep the domain `test.com`.
1. Click **Save**.

Navigate to [Log Explorer][2] to confirm that new logs coming in with those emails are getting processed as expected.

{{< img src="sensitive_data_scanner/guides/domain_attribute.png" alt="The domain attribute in log side panel" style="width:80%;" >}}

## Add the email domain attribute as a facet

> 1. In [Log Explorer][2], select a log that contains the email with the specified domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In [Log Explorer][2], select a log that contains an email with the specified domain.
```

1. Click on the cog next to the domain attribute you just created.
1. Select **Create facet for...**.

> 1. Optionally, add it to a group in the **Advanced Options** section.

Reviewer: Assuming "it" means "the log",

```suggestion
1. Optionally, add the log to a group in the **Advanced Options** section.
```

If not, I would change "it" to whatever more specific identifier is correct. :)

Author: It's a facet, updated your suggestion.

1. Click **Add**.

> ## Configure the Sensitive Data Scanner scanning group to filter out logs with the domain attribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure the Sensitive Data Scanner scanning group to filter out logs with your domain attribute
```

> Update your Sensitive Data Scanner's scanning group to filter out logs with the domain attribute, so only logs that do not have that email domain are redacted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update your Sensitive Data Scanner's scanning group to filter out logs with the domain attribute that you created, so only logs that do not have that email domain are redacted.
```

1. Navigate to the Sensitive Data Scanner [Configuration][3] page.
1. Click the pencil icon to the left of the scanning group you want to update.

> 1. In the **Filter** field, add the domain attribute so those logs are filtered out. For example, to filter out logs with the email domain `test.com`, add `-@domain:test.com` to the filter query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Filter** field, add the domain attribute so that logs with that attribute are filtered out. For example, to filter out logs with the email domain `test.com`, add `-@domain:test.com` to the filter query.
```

> {{< img src="sensitive_data_scanner/guides/scanning_group_filter_domain.png" alt="The scanning group's filter query with -@domain:test.com" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: "filter query" or "query filter"? The latter makes more sense to me but there may be established terminology here I'm unaware of.

Author: Ah yes, we usually use "filter query".

1. Click **Update**.

Navigate to [Log Explorer][2] to confirm that the new logs coming in do not have emails with the specified domain redacted.

> {{< img src="sensitive_data_scanner/guides/log_explorer_domain.png" alt="The Log Explorer showing logs with redacted emails and a log showing the test.com email not redacted" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="sensitive_data_scanner/guides/log_explorer_domain.png" alt="The Log Explorer showing logs with redacted email addresses and one log showing the test.com email unredacted" style="width:100%;" >}}
```
